# The-Magical-Touch-of-Ayurveda
Summary: Digging into Ayurveda and how its journey from tradition to trend has influenced people to visit Ayurveda centers and even enrolling for Ayurveda courses in Kerala.  Ayurveda is an ancient system of healing that originated in India around 5000 years back. It is being said that traditional Chinese medicine as well as Tibetan medicine have evolved from Ayurveda which shows how ancient the science is. Over the years, this ancient healing system has established itself as more than a system of treating diseases.  Nowadays Ayurveda is into everything from beauty to health to even farming. People from different corners of the world flock to sub-continent for Ayurvedic beauty courses in India or Ayurveda courses in Kerala.  Most of these Ayurveda treatment centers are located in Kerala (birthplace of Ayurveda) where one can indulge in a myriad of spa treatments and therapies.  Let us highlight a few of the treatments that may charm you to get one. SarvangaDhara This ayurvedic therapy is performed by pouring streamlined medicated liquid all over the body. After a bath, lightly heated medicated oil is poured over the body until the body starts sweating. It may also include other products during the process, buttermilk is the preferred choice. This whole process relaxes, strengthens and rejuvenates the muscles and tissues of the body. There are other benefits from this treatment which includes increased blood circulation, relieve from joint pains etc. This revitalizing process lasts for an hour and is believed to be one of the best therapies.  Abhyangam with Shirodhara Most of the Ayurvedic centers practice Abhyangam these days. Abhyangam includes massaging the body with medicated oils in large quantity. However Shirodhara treatment includes pouring of medicated oils or liquids in uniformity over the forehead. The combination of this Ayurvedic massage with Shirodhara works as a therapeutic treatment for the patient. This combination is usually used to treat sinus, skin problems, allergic rhinitis, neurological disorders, memory loss and even for eye diseases. As two therapies are involved in this treatment, it may take up more than an hour to complete this therapeutic session. Nasal meditation Nasyam is the other name to this ayurvedic therapy in the Ayurvedic centers. As per the name, this therapy involves pouring of medicated oils or liquids inside the body through nostrils. This therapy is most helpful for clearing coagulation in the head, neck, and nose which activates the nervous system and the brain. It enhances the flow of blood and oxygen circulation in the body. Also, it removes any clogging and mucus in the nasal cavity. This therapy works best for clearing the toxins of the body; therefore, it is considered as the best method for cleansing the body. Kizhi This therapy is also one of the most renowned therapies among the ones used by Ayurvedic centers. The reason for the same is that this therapy focuses on the overall wellbeing of the body. There are two different types of Kizhi therapies - one is PodiKizhi and the other is Ella Kizhi. In Podi therapy, a blend of medicated powder is heated in a bowl and is used to massage the patient’s body. In Ella therapy, ayurvedic herbs are used to massage the whole body. Apart from healing the whole body from various illnesses it also provides radiant skin.  Ayurvedic facial treatments Ayurvedic facial treatment is not just a mere facial but a treatment that treats the skin medically. The ayurvedic herbs are used as a paste or in raw form to massage the face gently. The absorption of these herbs helps the skin fight various skin problems such as blemishes, pigmentation, acne, tanning etc. and protects the skin from infections. At the end of the process, a special pack is applied that keeps the skin away from pimples. And, since it is ayurvedic it is suitable for all skin types. The ayurvedic treatments mentioned are just a few of the examples of what Ayurveda is doing for us. For core and authentic learning of the above mentioned and other treatments involved in Ayurveda, you may enrol for ayurvedic beauty courses in India.
